[Music]
so you bored yet another long-haul
flight and look for your seat 26 B
whoopee here we are you look down to see
two husky dudes sitting in 26g and see
oh boy hmm
there are plenty of empty seats around
time to switch places but not so fast
you could put the whole plane at risk
first you probably aren't the only one
looking to pull the old switcheroo even
if just a few passengers do it they
could throw the plane off balance and
since most aircraft are incredibly
sensitive to changes in their center of
gravity it can lead to dramatic
consequences during takeoff pilots must
know the distribution of weight on the
plane to make exact calculations if
these calculations are off even the
slightest there are chances that the
aircraft can crash while leaving the
ground but even if the worst doesn't
happen
pilots can still have serious problems
controlling the plane after passengers
change their seats without informing the
crew for example one pilot could hardly
get the plane in the needed position
after just four passengers left their
assigned seats and moved themselves to
the front of the cabin the situation was
critical because the runway at that
particular Airport was unusually short
if something had gone wrong the plane
wouldn't have been able to stop by the
way if the airport staff load baggage
incorrectly for example in the rear
compartment instead of the front one it
can also mess with the plane's balance
in this case the aircraft's nose can
pitch up too fast you might think that
would only help the plane up in the air
but an inexact takeoff can be an
incredibly dangerous situation in any
case it doesn't mean you can't change
your seat on the plane at all
but before nestling in a more
comfortable or spacious spot ask a cabin
crew member if you're allowed to do so
and don't be surprised or offended if
they say no the no seat hopping rule
isn't the only one you should follow to
have a safe flight here are some others
you'll need to keep in mind on your next
trip at 30,000 feet and if you can add
anything to the list then
your suggestions down in the comments
all we secure your tray table as soon as
the plane starts moving on the tarmac
and never lower it during takeoff and
landing
it's a security measure that ensures you
and other passengers will have a clear
path in case of an emergency evacuation
keep your seat in an upright position
during takeoff and landing like a
lowered tray table a reclined seat can
seriously slow down an evacuation
since it'll block the person sitting
behind you not to mention if your seat
is leaning back it'll be nearly
impossible for that person to get into
the brace position during a crash
landing if you have a choice when
booking a flight go for a larger
aircraft planes with more than 30 seats
are designed and certified under even
stricter regulations if you're on a
larger aircraft you have higher chances
of surviving a possible accident
remember that sitting near an emergency
exit means not only more legroom but
also more responsibility you'll have to
help other passengers evacuate the plane
that's why only able-bodied adults can
occupy such seats on top of that they
absolutely must read emergency exit
safety cards to know how to act if
something goes wrong follow cabin crew
instructions to open window shades
during takeoff and landing
this way flight attendants can see
what's happening outside assess the
situation and act fast in case something
out there tells them that an evacuation
will be needed for example smoke or fire
might be coming from one of the engines
and if there's a fire outside one exit
they'll know to redirect passengers
toward another door fly nonstop without
connections if you can an overwhelming
majority of plane crashes happen during
the first three and last eight minutes
of the flight in other words that's
during takeoff climb descent and landing
if there isn't a staggering difference
in price fly non-stop this way you can
not only shorten the duration of your
trip but also cut the risk of getting
into an accident during those especially
dangerous moments
anything can happen during a flight make
sure all the gadgets you're traveling
with have backup files on separate hard
drive or in the cloud assume that you
might lose your electronic device at
some point during your trip and it
doesn't necessarily have to be in a
crash wearing proper clothing will
reduce your risks during air travel try
to wear clothes made of natural fibers
such as wool cotton leather and denim
they'll protect you the best if there's
a fire or evacuation as for synthetic
fabrics like polyester or nylon they
melt easily when heated your clothes
should also be comfortable and loose you
should be able to move freely in them up
for long sleeves and pants they'll cover
as much of your body as possible and
provide warmth and protection if need be
and finally pay attention to your
Footwear no high heels flip-flops or
sandals you'll be asked to remove them
before you leave the plane via an escape
slide that'll just slow down your
evacuation and put you at risk of
cutting your feet on metal debris or
broken glass don't panic or complain
when the cabin lights get dimmed before
a nighttime takeoff and landing it's a
standard safety procedure that allows
your eyes to adjust faster if there's an
emergency evacuation imagine it this way
you're in a bright room crammed with
different objects someone suddenly
switches off the light and tells you to
get out of this room as fast as you can
you'd probably struggle right but if
your eyes are already adjusted to the
dimness then you'll be able to spot exit
signs and emergency lights in the aisle
when the cabin fills with smoke or the
power goes out listen to cabin crew
instructions attentively always remember
that these people are there for your
safety so if one of them asks you to do
something obey first and ask questions
later
also never pour hot drinks like coffee
or tea on your own flight attendants are
trained to handle this task in the tiny
crowded aisles of a moving airplane
without accidentally burning you or
other passengers prepare a run kit and
make sure it's with you at all times
such a kit should contain your passport
wallet cell phone credit cards and cash
necessary medications and a list of
emergency contacts most of these things
are difficult to replace if you lose
them in the hustle and bustle of an
evacuation so keep them on your person
through the whole flight like in your
pocket or a fanny pack as for your purse
or that carry-on bag full of clothes and
personal hygiene stuff leave it remember
that during an evacuation you have a
mere 90 seconds to leave the aircraft
don't stuff heavy objects into overhead
lockers they can fall out during severe
turbulence and injure you or other
passengers if it feels difficult to lift
something into the overhead bin better
store it under the seat in front of you
or elsewhere
the people sitting near the emergency
exits might be obligated to read the
safety instructions in the seat back in
front of them but you better to clean
layouts are vastly different so you must
know the main points about the one
you're on if worse comes to worst this
knowledge may save your life for the
same reason always listen to and watch
the preflight safety briefing if you see
some suspicious activity or strange
looking packages immediately inform the
cabin crew if you're already on the
plane or a security officer if you're
still at the airport chances are it's
nothing to worry about but it's better
to be safe than sorry
it might be a waste of time to look for
the safest seat on the plane because it
probably doesn't exist even if you're
near an exit it may not be functioning
after an accident and while an aisle
seat might provide you with a speedier
evacuation should something happen you
may also be hurt by objects falling from
overhead bins well it gets me all
excited about flying seriously think of
it this way the more prepared you are
for something the less likely it is to
happen I just made that up sound good
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life